in the 21st century it's really not all
that much of a commitment to tell
someone that you love them and by
contrast it's really a much more serious
commitment with much more serious
consequences for both of you if you tell
someone that you do not love them love
can mean different things in different
contexts to different people there are
many different types of loving
relationships and one in the same living
relationship can change a lot from one
period of your life to another but not
loving someone not caring both someone
not taking responsibility for them what
that means and what it entails is very
clear and the key study of the Paul
brothers and their relationship with
Elissa violet it's a peculiar example
that leads me to reflect on how many
people think they're protecting
themselves by refusing to commit by
refusing to care by refusing to be in
love and they find out that instead
they've made themselves all the more
vulnerable or if setting ourselves up
for disaster of some kind
I digress to note here on this channel I
like to talk about issues in a way that
will still be interesting to me if I
come back and watch this video five
years from now when the controversy at
the moment has long been forgotten I
also try to only talk about the
controversy at the moment if I feel I
have something really meaningful and
important to say something that maybe
one day my own daughter or my own
grandchildren might watch and find some
value in during me saying so I just note
there is a controversy passing
momentarily right now a series of videos
by shane dawson talking about the love
life of several youtubers i'm just gonna
call them the brothers paul two brothers
who ended up having a love affair with
the the same woman
and you know acrimony then emerged
between the two of them I only ended up
watching this series of videos because
it promised to deal with the subject of
sociopathy with certain diagnosed mental
disorders and I think the the politics
and public perception of those disorders
and that's a topic that does interest me
I was not interested at least at the
beginning of this process in the
personal life of Jake Paul and Logan
Paul just not not something I would have
watched a video about attentionally but
that drew me in and then I did watch
this series through to its conclusion
so with that having been said probably
none of you in clicking on this video
thought that I was going to mention the
19th century philosopher Immanuel Kant
Immanuel Kant is an incredibly boring
philosopher who's backed up by the
entire academic establishment so many of
you if you have a university education
you may have been forced to read some of
the manual Cohn there's a quip from a
manual contour a funny anecdote
preserved in its philosophy that would
not be well-known if it were not
followed up immediately by a racist
remark so this passage gets quoted in
discussions of how racist wasn't Manuel
Condit how much does it matters
philosophy that's not why I'm quoting it
here as you'll you'll soon see Immanuel
Kant quotes an anecdote from an explorer
from some group of Europeans who were
exploring Africa or traveling in remote
regions of Africa and it was in a region
of Africa where the culture was
predominantly Islamic predominantly
Muslim and a local man was a black
African but I think culturally Islamic
remarks these Europeans I don't
understand you people I don't understand
your your culture you say that you give
your women all of these freedoms but if
they actually use them then you go crazy
you know if you if the women actually
use in practice the theory that if
use the freedoms that you say they have
in theory than you guys fly off the
handle and I forget I think the original
wording also implied that they they
would be they beat their wives which of
course at that time was much more common
than his today um many of these cultures
it was considered a normal practice for
husbands to beat their wives up until a
few decades ago
anyway I forget the the precise wording
and anyway Immanuel Kant then follows up
this somewhat interesting anecdote by
making a racist statement against black
people and that's why the passage is
well known that's the only reason I
ended up reading that passage but the
racism of Immanuel Kant has nothing to
do with what I want to talk about in
this video that anecdote makes an
interesting point and whether young men
or old are involved in these scenarios
whether they call what they're doing an
open relationship or not a relationship
at all it's very easy for them to
deceive themselves as to what it will
really mean to them in practice if they
as the anecdote says give these women
these these freedoms what will be the
consequences for them personally or
emotionally if they actually use them
and now conversely if you're giving
someone these freedoms if you're saying
it's okay for you to sleep with other
men which was the situation for for Jay
Paul he was in a relationship of some
kind with with Elissa if you say that
it's okay for her to sleep with other
people because you yourself intend to
sleep with other people you know what
will be the consequences for you when
that actually happens again Jake Paul he
showed himself to be uh to be a
hypocrite on this he did exactly what
the Anto suggests he went crazy he had
an emotional breakdown he couldn't
handle it when in fact she used the
freedom that she was indeed entitled to
so this point you guys will already have
started to pick up on the fact that in
this scenario I actually put a hundred
percent of the blame on Jake Paul I
actually don't put any of the blame
on the woman involved ELISA and I don't
put any of the blame on the other
brother this is a scenario in which Jake
Paul let it be known privately and
publicly again and again that he was not
in a relationship this woman that he did
not love her that he did not care for
her that they were not in any way
exclusive or even dating or in a real
relationship so if so if you're giving
her that Liberty are giving her that
status you are in no position whatsoever
to complain when she actually does make
use of that freedom and in this case yes
that even does extend to your own
brother sleeping with her now it's not
merely hypothetical to invert the
situation and ask how would the woman
feel how would ELISA feel if he if Jake
Paul had slept with her sister it's not
hypothetical and here's what I mean Jake
Paul slept with a woman whom ELISA
described as having been her best friend
and her closest confidant living in the
same house at the same time the woman
who is today publicly the girlfriend of
Jake Paul I believe her name is Erica
the woman who today is his girlfriend
was previously the best friend of his ex
girlfriend they lived together they were
in intimate terms days she shared with
this woman her own sorrows including her
sorrows about how the relationship with
Jake was going so the type of betrayal
involved in Jake having slept with both
of them or having cheated on one with
the other depending on what kind of
perspective you want to bring to it
whether or not the word cheating can be
used so in this context because it's an
open relationship
bla bla bla the relationship that those
two women had was actually much closer
than most people's relationship with
their own sister or their own brother
I've never shared a house or shared an
apartment with any of my brothers and
sisters
I've never once confided in my brothers
and sisters about problems that was
having when dating someone in my love
life or that kind of that kind of deeply
personal issue never and in terms of
Western english-speaking society I'm not
that unusual it's not that unusual to be
kind of estranged from just not to have
very close relationships with your
brothers and sisters so she did have
someone in her life who was in a
sister-like relationship with her and he
did actually cross the same line with
absolutely no regard to the consequences
for her or regard to the consequences
for the other people involved in this
Gordian knot so I come back to this
simple idea it is not all that much of a
commitment in the year 2018 to tell
somebody that you love them in many ways
that's just the start of a longer
conversation but it's a very gravely
serious commitment to tell them that you
don't love them that you're never gonna
love them that it doesn't matter how
many times they sleep with you or how
many gifts they give you or how many
times they take your dinner it's never
going to progress you're never going to
take responsibility for them in that way
I'm gonna say more about that the world
responsibility that you're never going
to become a real couple etc do you think
in the span of time covered by these
anecdotes none of the people ever came
down with the common cold do you think
none of them ever came down with stomach
flu or a urinary tract infection I
mentioned that because actually ELISA
has referred repeatedly to getting your
tract infections on our YouTube channel
during this time what happens when you
get sick in that scenario this is I
think the fundamental reason why
monogamy is the most popular mode of
dating or not to mention marriage the
world over even amongst people who are
not Christian or
religious in any sense or who may not
even have cultural cultural German
reasons to accept it if you have just
one person in your life one girlfriend
or one boyfriend when that person comes
down with the flu you say okay I'm going
to cancel my plans to go see a movie I'm
gonna cancel my our plans to go and see
a concert together to go and see a
basketball game or whatever it was I'm
gonna cancel our plans to go skiing and
I'm gonna sit down here with you and I'm
gonna care for you and I'm gonna do
everything I can to make you feel better
and help you get through this illness
and that is a kind of responsibility and
that is a kind of love it's a kind of
loving relationship that most people
don't think about under the heading of
romantic love but very soon after the
initial stages of flirtation and dating
it's it's a very large part of the
practical experience of what it means to
be loved by someone or to love someone
else if you have multiple women in your
life as Jake Paul did and you tell all
of them that you don't love them that
you're not going to take care of them
that you're not going to take
responsibility for them then that means
you have tickets to go and see a concert
and you say oh you're sick okay I'll
take someone else oh you're sick well
I'm gonna go skiing anyway that was an
example actually dealt with in these
videos oh you have a urinary tract
infection well then I'll just have sex
with someone else anyway the lack of
care the lack of responsibility
especially in a scenario where these
people are living under the same roof
eating out of the same fridge in the
same kitchen there are no words to
describe how much resentment can build
up in that scenario there's a kind of
false intimacy and false dependency
that's created by people living together
in close quarters that way I had an
experience early in life it would have
been the age when most people in their
first year of university and it
concerned a girl who was I think about a
year and a half older than me and so she
she was already into university I didn't
know she was in love with me she didn't
show any signs to me directly and later
I figured out mmm she'd actually broken
down crying with other people mutual
friends we had in common talking about
how much she wasn't loving me and
something I did that made it worse which
I didn't even think about at the time
she once phoned me up I think it was
just to cancel so she couldn't come to
some event telling me that she'd come
down with the flu
and I knew her situation she was young
in college had her own apartment she was
all alone and she didn't have in her
apartment the things that her parents
would have provided for when she had a
cold or a flu and I you know I had no
money to speak of but I took a few
dollars and I didn't tell her I was
gonna do this um I think I just told her
I'd stop by I took a few dollars and I
went to the pharmacy and I bought her
lozenges horrible cough syrup kind of
lines your throat you know those
miscellaneous antibiotic helping you get
over Poland cough type of
over-the-counter medicines I bought her
a meal I don't remember what the meal
was at bought her I wasn't seeking that
but I brought her some food and I
remember distinctly that I bought her a
digital thermometer cuz I knew I don't
think she told me I knew she wouldn't
even have a thermometer but it's
possible on the phone she said to me
that she had a fever and was worried
about it but she couldn't take her
temper she said something that to me and
that's why I bought her the thermometer
so I kind of put together this bundle
things to help her and I got on the bus
and went up to her apartment
I just visited her I wasn't there for
very long when she was sick she was
lying in bed feeling like crap oh uh you
know we didn't talk a lot obviously but
I brought her this stuff and daughter
set up and I you know I kind of set up
the food put it on a plate for and you
know she remained lying in bed under the
covers with the sort of food next to her
and I said okay you know here's this
medicine here's these laws Newser and
you and I say goodbye and I left you
know and from my perspective her and I
were just friends but looking back on it
now I can see that that probably was a
turning point for her where she went
from maybe having a crush on me to her
really feeling like she was in love with
me or even feeling like she was entitled
to be in a relationship we kind of
feeling wronged that I wasn't and
relationship with her and you know I
never kissed this girl or not at this
point anyway they here heard the story
she pounced on me when I was drunk once
that's kind of another story but I'd
never there was no ambiguity from my
side I wasn't interested in being in a
romantic relationship with her or sexual
of any kind whatsoever and the lesson
that was to be learned there is really
simple but I didn't want to learn it I
didn't want to think that I didn't want
to think that we live in a world where
it's bad and wrong to do something
that's so wholesome and helpful and nice
and something that I wish somebody else
would do for me if our positions were
reversed and the inevitable conclusion
of that anecdote which I stole we don't
really want to accept today as well you
have to be really careful about who you
help even if it's with the gesture this
friendly this harmless this helpful
because that can create you know
emotional ties that really bind and the
reverse is also true you live together
with someone in a house as these three
people in the love triangle did your
brother is involved with your Co
worker who lives in the same house with
you and all of those people at some
point have the experience of being sick
and alone and you're not there and
you're not taking responsibility for
them and again it may be the most
trivial illness
it may be a urinary tract infection it
may be the common cold but you are in
the position of having other women to
chase and other things to do
and if just not caring that experience
creates the kind of resentment ties that
bind in a negative sense that then
explains the somewhat crazy over-the-top
and vengeful behavior of the woman in
this scenario who did of course go out
of her way to try to really hurt the
feelings of Jake Paul that's all I have
to say people from my perspective
Jake Paul the blame and responsibility
for the scenario is 100% on you if you
give someone the freedom to sleep with
others and you claim that freedom for
yourself and you say that you don't love
them the statement that you don't love
them that you're never gonna love them
that you're not progressing towards a
real relationship that has serious
consequences and you wimped out when it
really mattered because you were the one
who couldn't deal with those
consequences